---
creation date: 2022-09-20
modification date: Wednesday 21st September 2022
aliases: [] 
tags: 
- homework
- h/w
---

<< [[2022-09-20]] | [[2022-09-22]] >>

# ❗❓ Info
Course Name: 
Date: Tuesday 20th September 2022
Professor/Speaker: 
Tags: #homework #h/w 

---
# 📑 H/W

## 📃 Summary of Notes
1. [Explain Java Features.](#1)
2. [Explain JVM.](#2)
3. [What is Byte Code.](#3)
4. [Is Java platform-indipendent? (comment onto it)](#4)
5. [Java Program Syntax. (With Explanation.)](#5)
6. [Discuss Structure of Java Program.](#6)
7. [Differnet types of Java Tokens. (With Examples.)](#7)
8. [Differnece between Primitive vs Reference Data Types.](#8)
9. [Exaplin Differnet Data Types in Java.](#9)
10. [Differnece between Primitive vs Refernce Data Types.](#10)
11. [How do you declare constants in Java. (With Examples.)](#11)
12. [How we declare and create Arrays.](#12)
13. [Write a Program in Java to perform following :-](#13)
	i) [Linear searching of an element in an array of Size 'a'.](#13.1)
	ii) [Finding the smallest and largest element in array.](#13.2)
	iii) [Find Average of all elements in the array.](#13.3)
14. [Differnece between-](#14)
	i) [Break and continue Statment.](#14.1)
	ii) [Labelled & Unlabelled break Statment.](#14.2)
	iii) [Switch Case & If Else Ladder.](#14.3)
	iv) [All Loops. (with Syntax & Examples.)](#14.4)
15. [Multi-Dimentional Array](#15)
16. [Write a Program of a 2D Array to find the Row MAX & Column MAX.](#16)
17. [Bit-wsie Operators](#17)
	-MOD3-
18. [Method Overlapping.](#18)
19. [How do we create methods? How many ways can a arguments be passed to methods in Java?](#19)
20. [Differnece between Class & Objects.](#20)
21. [Scope of variables (Instance local stataic).](#21)
22. [How to create Enum in Java.](#22)


## **Answers-**

# 1
  *Explain Java Features.*
	  ## **Platform Independent** -
		  - *Compiler converts source code* to **bytecode** and then the *[JVM](#JVM) executes the bytecode* generated by the compiler.
		  - This **bytcode** can run on any device. Each OS has a *different [JVM](#JVM)*, but the ==output produced by all the OS is the same after the execution of bytecode==.
		  - This is why Java is called **platform-independent**. 
			  - The programs written in Java *can be run on multiple platforms* *without re-writing them individually* for a particular platform.
	  ## **Simple** - 
		  - It is one of the ***easy-to-use*** programming languages *to learn*.
		  - Java's syntax is based on "*C++*" (*so easier for programmers to learn it after C++*).
		  - Java has **removed** many *complicated and rarely-used features*, 
			  - *Example-* explicit pointers, operator overloading, *etc.*
		- There is *no need* to r==emove unreferenced objects== because there is an **Automatic Garbage Collection in Java**.
	  ## **Object-oriented** - 
		  - *Everything in Java* is an **object**. 
		  - Object-oriented means *we organize our software* as a ==combination of different types of objects that incorporate both data and behavior==.
		  - Basic concepts of OOPs are:
			  1. [[Object_Oriented_Programming#^edbd1a|Object]]
			  2. [[Object_Oriented_Programming#^3ccd44|Class]]
			  3. Inheritance
			  4. Polymorphism
			  5. Abstraction
			  6. Encapsulation
	  ## **Secured** - 
		  - Java is best known for its *security*. With Java, we can develop *virus-free systems*. 
		  - Java programs run in an environment that is *independent of the os environment* ==which makes java programs more secure==.
		  - Java is secured because:
			  - *No explicit pointer*.
			  - Java Programs run inside a *virtual machine sandbox*.
	  ## **Robust** - 
		  - Java is a robust language that *can handle run-time errors as it checks* the code *during the compile and runtime*.
		  - If any *runtime error* is identified by the *JVM*, it will **not be passed directly** to the *underlying system*. Instead, it will *immediately* **terminate the program** and ==stop it from causing any harm to the system==.
		  - The *main features* of java that make it robust are **garbage collection, Exception Handling, and memory allocation**.
	  ## **Portable** - 
	  - Java Byte code can be carried to any platform
  - It is designed for building **object-oriented applications**.
  - It is a **multithreaded language** *with automatic memory management*.
  - 
